oh hey everybody today is Thursday July
11 and we're back spent a couple months
we're back to chat about protocol so we
have a lot of updates that I want to
kind of run through including probably
the most important of them being the q3
okay ours that we've laid out to kind of
what we want to prioritize coming up but
also lots of highlights to show you from
stuff that has happened recently let me
just quickly paste the link to our notes
into the chat here it's not in there and
then I'm well so I'm actually gonna
change the order on some of these things
in case we don't start really quickly
sharing this I shared a version of this
in github in the organizers
beep oh good just a couple things I have
happened recently which may have
happened since we had our meetings on
pause so one of them is that we got the
mutable file system tutorial release
this is essentially our kind of our
easiest introductory content about ipfs
right now and this also includes showing
off our new landing pages that do go got
us set up with which are awesome because
now you can send someone a link to a
specific tutorial and have them land
right in the table of contents and then
we were able to show off this MF s
tutorial at ipfs camp and there's some
more content that's related from my PFS
camp that we'll try to feed back into
this tutorial as we go
and here oh so if you other UX things
that have happened over the past few
months
um there's now a file type that's used
in that MF s tutorial where you can
build lessons that require file upload
and then there's also an optional thing
here where a user can view the solution
to code if they want to then cheat they
would have to go through the work of
copying and pasting that this is nice we
actually changed this partway through
based on user feedback so now you can
cheat but it's harder and you're not
gonna have your own work overwritten
excellently and then you'll go set us up
with some markdown formatting and
logging of results so it's now possible
when you build a tutorial to say oh you
know what the user would really benefit
from seeing like what the output is of
this at the end for example so you can
log certain things to help people
diagnose mistakes and you can also use
markdown formatting in success and
failure messages we streamlined all the
generated a lot of work to kind of
streamline the project structure in a
way that makes more sense makes it
easier for people to create new
tutorials and then we've updated as we
go and as we add new features or
updating the instructions for building
tutorials and then Ollie bill end to end
testing to ensure that when you build a
lesson and provide solutions which is
mandatory as authors provide solutions
this robot will go through and make sure
that the solutions actually pass our
validation test which doesn't mean
everything is perfect but it's a good
thing to check on one other thing that
we did a little while back is to set up
a meta tag so that if you share on
social a proto school link it will at
least have a little screenshot in there
and create a social card for itself it
still can't distinguish between pages in
our single page app to do that but um
that's helpful to have something visual
when we share and then we also are up to
at least when I took the screenshot I
think still 21 chapters on four
continents and we had a few people at
ipfs camp that were interested in in
joining so we'll see if we get some more
leads from that too yes
so that's a little look at some of the
stuff that has happened for their back
and I want to share one of the things
that should so one of the things we're
excited about that's in a PR right now
that's almost ready to emerge is now we
have landing pages but we also now have
well since we merge VR we will have
these resources pages so every tutorial
that exists will have a resources lesson
at the end of it and normally when you
go to a lesson on a specific topic the
lesson itself has this link to share
questions and feedback which opens it
github issue and it's a really great
resource for us particularly well people
are live at events giving us feedback
but now when you go through when you
pass the last lesson here you'll go to
there is really do you get to your
resources page before you get to some
more tutorials button and notice that
this is a different footer here which is
asking for feedback about the tutorial
in general and one thing we will
probably do is move that request for
feedback up into the body of this where
it's a little more visible but for right
now this is nice kind of short term
solution to this so the kinds of
resources you might see here would
include other proto school tutorials
that make sense to try next they would
include documentation they would include
other demos or videos or articles or
whatever make sense so we will ask the
author's to submit theirs that it's now
in the JSON format when you build your
tutorial there's a place to submit that
information and then it pulls in all of
the formatting is created behind the
scenes by us so that it will be
consistent across tutorials but and
these are accessible we had at one point
considered making it
like you can only see this once you pass
all the lessons but we want people to
have the opportunity to just go and look
for stuff in other formats and we're
tagging with this farm at SARM so this
should be live hopefully by the end of
the week oh okay that's interesting and
stop sharing that and next up on my
whirlwind tour does anybody have
questions about anything I've talked
about so far before I carry on
um next up roadmap am i still sharing
this or do a self sure okay so q3 okay
RS this is where we're at right now um
one of the things that happen at our
ipfs team week obviously roto school is
not purely tied to ipfs and there will
be a lot more content but we work really
closely with the IDF s team and so
there's an initiative within the ipfs
group right now to sort of break down
into task forces and tackle some big
problems and we've sort of aligned proto
school with one of the big tests that we
that we want to tackle right now which
is improving our documentation and kind
of educational resources for people and
we view proto school is kind of one
format through which that happens so we
will be kind of linking some of these
goals back to some epics over there but
for those of you who are interested in
proto school you can find everything you
need about proto school right here so
I'm in the roadmap repo and within the
proto school org this is where you can
find both kind of longer-term roadmap ok
ours meeting notes etc so this is a
draft of our q3 okay ours and we should
for the most part have do go and I
working mostly full time on proto school
this quarter and so we have the bulk of
these in our buckets and these are the
same objectives that you've seen in the
past so the first one is in our website
including an increasing range of
tutorial content from across multiple
projects so the content itself improving
and growing over time so one of the top
things on our list is to go back and
look at what was created for ipfs camp
there were a lot of workshops a lot of
people spend a lot of time thinking
about the best way is to explain things
and creating graphics that were really
helpful so I'm going to go back through
the content from camp and think about
what would make a nice standalone
tutorial in proto school what would have
some nice images or explanations that we
can add
to existing tutorials so by the end of
the quarter we will have at the very
least a plan for where all of that fits
in if not some of that already put in
and then there are two ideas here in
terms of content that we generated last
quarter and haven't executed on yet so
one is that our decentralized data
structures tutorial this is the text
only one that we've kind of used as a
starting point we realize that it's
really kind of treating two totally
separate topics that are at different
levels of technicality one is the whole
like what is decentralized web why does
content addressing matter so the web
you're used to versus the centralized
web and this this the other half of it
is very much like data formats like the
intricacies of inside of a cid and then
Merkle dag which just kind of drops off
and it's not clear why we're telling you
about Mirko Dadich structure and there
is some good concept from camp about
that so we're gonna pull this apart into
two tutorials and kind of recommend them
at different times in the workflow and
then we also want to build the tutorial
the MF s want only covers the like ipfs
dot files dot whatever that uses the
mutable filesystem this abstraction but
we need to also cover the things like
add that are in the normal normal part
of the of the files API or the the part
without the dot files in it so we want
to circle back and he loaded somewhere
to enable blobs to be better supported
in the browser so that's gonna be a lot
easier to build now so that's those are
the ones that new content that we're
hoping to definitely get out this
quarter but we may find other stuff
coming through and quickly as well from
camp so that's on the content front and
then we have this whole bucket that's
essentially like user experience learner
experience and making improvements in
the way that the site works so that we
can support more stuff there and linking
back and forth some documentation so one
of these relates to what I just showed
you with that resources page we want to
make sure that all of the existing
protocol tutorials as well as moving
forward everything that we add links to
existing documentation so both within
the content of a lesson it will link to
the docs or a certain API but
so from those resource pages at the end
so making it easier for people to find
other learning materials is gonna be
really important and it also gives us a
better chance to take care of the folks
who are like but the thing I made that's
great to teach people stuff doesn't fit
in pro school well you're right but we
can link to it from a resources page so
command line things at the moment for
example and vice versa we want to go
back to the documentation so let's say
in the files API documentation make sure
that there's a link to the proto school
em FS tutorial so that people are
finding their ways between different
kinds of documentation we want to add
support from multiple-choice exercises
which is gonna help authors be able to
build a broader range of content that
would be a nice choice for something
that you don't necessarily want people
to have to code it could be a more of an
entry level high level conversation but
keeping people engaged so that is in
progress and maybe halfway done and we
also want to make it possible to build
live p2p tutorials and support
validation so I believe the key piece
here is that we need to create Olympia
to be instance in the background so that
you can test things against it or let
people change their settings or whatever
so Diogo is gonna talk to make up and
see what we can do to make that possible
within this system so you can add there
was some limb p2p content at camp as
well and that's part of a broader effort
to extend our content beyond ipfs in
general so getting ourselves to a place
where we can support more more detailed
stuff we did a great job last quarter of
making our instructions more clear for
how to build tutorials there's very much
like you need this file and you need to
change this part of it and when you
change it here it will come out here and
the in the ultimate view but what we're
missing is how you break down
information into smaller chunks and
teach people effectively what are kind
of the limitations of the platform like
the fact that you can't do command line
stuff right now so a little more
information around that added to the
documentation for building tutorials and
then we also want to just take a review
we we don't know which way we're going
with this yet but we want to sit down
explore other
and online coding education platforms
just to see if there is a solution out
there that is full-featured enough and
flexible enough to meet our needs so
that we're kind of making the decision
between incorporated and an existing
solution and moving our content over
well we don't have a ton of content to
move over or continuing to build our own
feature set and move forward with what
we have and we don't know which way that
will go but we want to look at that
before we get too deep into building
everything into our our own piece there
and they're all are a couple of issues
already um more people have suggested
certain alternatives so looking at those
plus other things we find um so that's
the sort of like learner experience
category and then enabling chapter
leaders shift so foster their local
communities around the globe we're
hoping to add more chapters hopefully
more than this but conservative goal
here and then set some clear
expectations for an individual
leadership what constitutes like the
right motivations for leaving a chapter
what the intended event model is like
you're using the protocol content at
your events um just adding a little more
guidance around that to make things more
clear and make those events that come
out of protocol more consistent based on
a shared understanding and and then this
one is more sort of like structurally
setting the project up for success so
two of the things this first one is as a
PR that's pretty much ready to go so
we're going to instead of using Google
Analytics use countly where we end up
like we are owning the data not Google
owning the data that we collect and the
way that we've set this up it interacts
with views router so it can now
distinguish we have not to date been
able to distinguish how many people were
visiting tutorial a versus tutorial B
and now we can and we can see the
specific lessons that they're visiting
etc so that one's almost ready to go and
then the next step in that will be
seeing how frequently people are
choosing to reset the code or view the
solution on each lesson and that's gonna
give us a better sense of what's too
hard what's working well where people
are falling off in the trail so that's
the other piece and those are really top
priority because we need to get some
measurement methods in place so that we
can have a way to help judge our success
as we move into the future and and then
the rest of these are are a bit more
about like this the people that we need
to succeed um making sure that we have
the folks we need what's the structure
of the people that we need moving
forward and where we can get more
support there and taking the taking a
look as we have continued to it like the
ways cultural differences affect what
people are doing in their local chapters
and how we can better support people
there and then there's an ongoing
question as SPL and ipfs look at having
a communications team in place whether
it makes sense for under a proto school
brand for there to be a blog or
publication that's really developer
focus we don't know yet whether that
will happen but if it's going to we need
to think about the that capacity
resources that we would need to
accommodate that so that's a look at
what we're looking at for q3 okay ours
and these are all kind of prioritized
what is most important said knock out of
the park as soon as possible and do is
anybody have questions on those or
concerns or suggestions no anything just
for example for the lippert superior
validation mm-hmm we'll have to do some
kind of refactor to the existing code so
it's going to be a huge a bunch of work
it's analyzed at that
that's okay our but you'll take a lot of
time I think yeah so that's something
that's one of those things that's like
the the piece that underlies it that
isn't written is like explore whether
this is a thing that is possible and a
good idea to do and then do it if it's a
good idea to do so if you look at it and
it's insane and there's another way we
can teach limb p2p without adding a
particular piece like we can look at
those options but hopefully in
collaboration with Jacob he's giving
some thought to it as he looked at it
but we'll see and the underpinnings of
it or where I need the most help so we
can also talk to folks like Michael who
built the system originally if we need
any
and the other guidance there yeah
any thoughts Dan before we move on good
yeah so we'll be keeping that up to date
we also I don't think I've actually
submitted yet but very shortly we will
have a recap on our how we did in q2
maybe I can share that next week once we
push it live we knocked a lot of stuff
out in q2 um and a lot of stuff I showed
you in that in that presentation earlier
as stuff that wasn't explicitly in our
okay our so as we weren't like yeah we
need this thing to to make this useful
so a lot of that will happen along the
way um all right what else did I have on
my list today ipfs camp does anybody
want to share what happened it ipfs camp
Danny won't talk about anything sure I
thought it was really good I know I
really enjoyed it and was really honored
to be able to come out and meet so many
of my my little heroes is a good time
and one thing that I think came out of
it that I am going to follow up here on
relatively soon is a lot of people are
interested in starting chapters and
starting at BFS groups in general so
opening up the conversation I think
especially on github to say I'd love to
support you and just talk with you about
some best practices that's something we
potentially could consider parsing out
text wise into a kind of meta tutorial
on her school like if you like this
content and would like to share it
here's some instructions about how you
could potentially go about that so
that's just it's a thought so as soon as
I'm coming up over some other things I'm
doing here that someone thought to
contribute yeah and there's I think
there are a few resources that are out
there that people aren't using that we
can keep like get more in the public eye
so for example there is for anyone who
hasn't seen it when you go in the
organizing repo there's a resources MD
that includes stuff like how you get
your stickers sent to you that you could
share with your attendees or where to
find good examples of codes of conduct
for example if you wanted to make the
Chinese version of your English code of
conduct whatever stuff to consider but
there are also discussions in github so
we're using issues there's some issues
flagged as a session including things
like tell us how your first event went
like what was involved in planning it
how did it go what could you have done
better as a place for people to learn
from each other and there are some
chapters who've been great about sharing
and some who haven't including some that
I know had amazing first events that
have not yet had the time to jot those
notes down for us so I think the more we
can build that discussion we talked
about this a bit at camp but I want to
make sure that that stuff gets document
in places where it's referenceable later
and so but I'm very open to more
suggestions on how we can kind of be
there for each other and I really
appreciated that you and Kevin and
Stephane all stepped up and took the
lead on that elective course at camp on
doing some community leadership and then
ipfs community partly ipfs partly proto
school and and it's great to have some
of our chapter leaders who are really
open to helping other people figure out
how to get started and what what kinds
of issues they need to navigate as they
work with local communities that's a
problem and it worked
yeah let's see what else yeah camp was
great we did set em FS tutorial was used
people kind of saw it at the at the tail
end of one of that Allan's Ellen and
Michaels workshop on working with but I
don't even know if I know the name of
their thing but they talk about merkel
bag stuff they talked about files there
was some interesting stuff that i
learned about the distinction between
you know how how safe em FS stuff is
from garbage question or whatever there
was some interesting caveats there and
so people got at least a little bit of
exposure to proto school there even if
they weren't at that community and
elective and we definitely had a lot of
folks both the three of you who led that
session but also a few
other folks who are chapter leaders who
were there and then we also have a
makeup plug in case anyone ever watches
these videos we do have a offline camp
coming up there's D web camp coming up
in late July in San Francisco but I'm
organizing offline camp which is in
Oregon the first weekend in August and
that's an opportunity not specifically
about D web but for anyone who's
interested in making stuff actually work
offline or in crappy network conditions
and some people approach it from its new
a perspective some don't but it's a it's
a really nice like unconference retreat
getaway in the woods with llamas so if
anyone would like more information on
that ping me or visit offline forward
slash camp um I'll put it in the notes
uh yeah what else do people want to talk
about did I miss you no have I we've
haven't met since maybe mid-may did my
little recap thing cover most of the
things you remember doing on proto
school since then or did I miss
something fun we've been working on from
what I remember that is not much but I
think you covered everything
see I think we've done things if you
actually sit back and try to make
presentation about it you look really
successful we're doing things we're
cranking stuff out yeah definitely yeah
so I think we have to like our big
things coming up next are that resources
page that they give you the sneak
preview of and getting those County an
allylic sin place so we'll be able to
see what tutorials people are hitting
and I'm also curious to go back into our
Google Analytics and see how much of an
extra traffic we got during ipfs camp or
um Jen just released an end of quarter
newsletter that ipfs newsletter that had
the first tutorial in it so stuff like
that I'm curious to see how much the
traffic is spiking there oh we had a fun
moment on Twitter someone enjoyed my
explanation of how you might
accidentally find a chihuahua sadena
beagle dot jpg or a kitten or something
so people are enjoying
beginner-friendly examples the pet humor
it's nice um yeah formulas to go what
would people like to chat about in
protists cool world I have just one
question one question in camp did you
these people took the MF s lesson
material so they started it it was like
you know there was an hour and a half to
do the thing and maybe in some groups
maybe five minutes from the end they
started and some groups two minutes from
the end they started so I don't know I
suspect no one got through the whole
tutorial during the course of their
lesson but they at least saw the
beginning some of it got started okay
yeah I was going to to ask if someone
gave some feedback about it um I think I
heard some feedback that was I heard a
few people like oh you have problems
well that's cool I didn't hear a lot of
specific feedback about the EMFs
tutorial so hopefully people will get
back into exploring it maybe see the
link in the newsletter and get deeper
into it there but we didn't go ahead as
I said I've been diving through it and
putting in a couple of notes throughout
yeah so I'll continue to do that and any
any critical feedback is is perfectly
just love and optionals of your stance
no yeah we have Kelsey and Seattle has
been great about giving feedback like
that too before we before we went live
to the public and we have some yeah
there's a lot of like lesson feedback
that's sitting in our queue so there are
things that aren't in our okrs that we
will certainly be picking up as we go
along and one of them is responding to
the lesson feedback that we get um a lot
of it is like very actionable
immediately some of it is like leads us
to like oh yeah we do need to slip that
tutorial into to your right it makes no
sense but it makes sense those we
structured it wrong or what
some of it is just quick like language
fixes I really hope so um yeah that's
great stuff to collect and we might want
to think about like figuring out a way
to connect the issues to each other
better to consolidate feedback about
certain lessons in the right place
whatever but um all stuff to work on
once we go so we should be that I will
knock on all the fake akia wood that
they have here we should be good to keep
going with these meetings sweetly moving
forward for this foreseeable future um
the just a reminder that there is the
ipfs weekly call on Wednesdays at
whatever time it is want Mondays at
whatever time it is one minute from
right now for you where you live um
which is like a half hour and usually
involves someone from the broader
community showing like how they're using
that gift that's a project once a month
it involves like a few lightning talks
and that's a pretty cool place to UM
catch some interesting demos and stuff
what's going on in the community where
we because of this shift to task forces
in ipfs we've rescheduled a lot of
meetings but the idea fest community
calendar is still the right place to go
to figure out when stuff is happening
I mean ipfs world obviously and then the
proto school we have here if anybody
hasn't found it there's a github issue
that is about this meeting so there are
some updates and notifications you can
subscribe there if you wanna make sure
you notice when things change but yeah I
thought have for you today I will see
you all next week and thanks for help at
camp dan you did a great job with that
session oh thank you it was fun yeah
thank you